[DOC-3386] Add docs for rotating a CMEK key (#14453)
cockroachdb/docs: v21.2/security-reference/encryption.md

## Encryption at rest

> When selecting a deployment environment for a CockroachDB cluster, we recommend that you select a cloud provider such as Google Cloud Platform (GCP) or Amazon Web Services (AWS), which automatically provide industry-standard encryption for cloud storage resources. You can learn more about [GCP persistent disk encryption](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pd_encryption) or [AWS Elastic Block Storage](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSEncryption.html). {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters, which can be deployed in either GCP or AWS, automatically receive this protection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When selecting a deployment environment for a CockroachDB cluster, we recommend that you select a cloud provider such as Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure, which automatically provide industry-standard encryption for cloud storage resources. You can learn more about [GCP persistent disk encryption](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pd_encryption), [AWS EBS volume encryption](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSEncryption.html) or [Azure managed disk encryption](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disk-encryption-overview). {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters, which can be deployed in either GCP or AWS, automatically receive this protection using cloud provider-managed keys.
```

Reviewer: Added Azure as it applies to SH clusters. The last statement on CC Dedicated can be limited to AWS and GCP.

> When selecting a deployment environment for a CockroachDB cluster, we recommend that you select a cloud provider such as Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure, which automatically provide industry-standard encryption for cloud storage resources. You can learn more about [GCP persistent disk encryption](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#pd_encryption), [AWS EBS volume encryption](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSEncryption.html) or [Azure managed disk encryption](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disk-encryption-overview). {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters, which can be deployed in either GCP or AWS, automatically receive this protection using cloud provider-managed keys

Reviewer 2: CockroachDB dedicated does not support Azure at this time. Is this recommendation meant for only self-hosted customers? I see CMEK (which _is_ a CC-dedicated feature) below.

Author: Yes, this is about encryption in CockroachDB period. @abhinavg6 asked that we include info about Azure encryption for self-hosted clusters on Azure VMs.

- To prevent key reuse with the same encryption parameters (after encrypting many files).
- To reduce the risk of key exposure.

Store keys are specified by the user and must be rotated by specifying different keys. This is done by restarting each node and setting the `key` parameter of the `--enterprise-encryption` flag to the path to the new key, and `old-key` to the previously used key. For an example, see [Changing Encryption Type](#changing-encryption-type).

Data keys will automatically be rotated at startup if any of the following conditions are met:

- The active store key has changed.
- The encryption type has changed (different key size, or plaintext to/from encryption).
- The current data key is `rotation-period` old or more.

Data keys will automatically be rotated at runtime if the current data key is `rotation-period` old or more.

Once rotated, an old store key cannot be made the active key again.

Upon store key rotation the data keys registry is decrypted using the old key and encrypted with the new
key. The newly-generated data key is used to encrypt all new data from this point on.

#### Changing encryption type

> The user can change the encryption type from plaintext to encryption, between different encryption algorithms (using various key sizes), or from encryption to plaintext.

Author: I'm not sure. This content is not actually new in this PR, just backported from the changes I did for 22.1 in the original CMEK task.

When changing the encryption type to plaintext, the data key registry is no longer encrypted and all previous data keys are readable by anyone. All data on the store is effectively readable.

When changing from plaintext to encryption, it will take some time for all data to eventually be re-written and encrypted.

#### Recommendations

There are a number of considerations to keep in mind when running with encryption.

##### Deployment configuration

To prevent key leakage, production deployments should:

> * Use encrypted swap, or disable swap entirely.

Author: Let's tackle this in DOC-302

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Encryption keys used by {{ site.data.products.core }} clusters

To allow arbitrary rotation schedules and ensure security of the keys, CockroachDB uses multiple layers of keys:

- **Store key**: A cluster's _store key_ is a _key encryption key (KEK) that CockroachDB uses to encrypt the cluster's data keys (see below).

  For CockroachDB Self-Hosted clusters, you provide the store key and give its location to CockroachDB when starting the cluster. The store key file must contain 32 bytes (the key ID) followed by the key (16, 24, or 32 bytes). The size of the key dictates the version of AES to use (AES-128, AES-192, or AES-256). For an example showing how to create a store key, see [Generating Key Files](/docs/{{site.versions["stable"]}}/encryption.html#generating-store-key-files).

  The store key is created automatically when the cluster is created.

>   Since very little data is encrypted using this key, it can have a very long lifetime without risk of reuse.

Author: Let's tackle this in DOC-302.

> 

Author: Let's tackle this in DOC-302.

  CockroachDB does not currently force re-encryption of older files but instead relies on normal [storage engine](../architecture/storage-layer.html) churn to slowly rewrite all data with the desired encryption.

  Data keys have short lifetimes to avoid reuse.

### Encrypted backups (Enterprise)

See [Take and Restore Encrypted Backups](../take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.html).

### Encryption caveats

#### Higher CPU utilization

Enabling Encryption at Rest might result in a higher CPU utilization. We estimate a 5-10% increase in CPU utilization.

#### Encryption for touchpoints with other services

- S3 backup encryption
- Encrypted comms with Kafka

## See also

- [Customer-Managed Encryption Keys (CMEK)](/docs/cockroachcloud/cmek.html)
- [Client Connection Parameters](../connection-parameters.html)
- [Manual Deployment](../manual-deployment.html)
- [Orchestrated Deployment](../orchestration.html)
- [Local Deployment](../secure-a-cluster.html)
- [Other Cockroach Commands](../cockroach-commands.html)

> {{ site.data.products.db }} clusters benefit from, we rely on the cloud provider's encryption-at-rest, and do not enable CockroachDB's [Encryption at Rest Enterprise feature](../enterprise-licensing.html) (see below).

Author: This is all mis-pasted. Thanks for. catching it.
